---
layout: post
title: Some background
published: true
author: dave
tags:
- backbonejs
- ruby
---

I started out my development career building websites and web experiences for clients of all sizes. I did this for a couple years before becoming a little burnt out and wanted to explore the future of web technologies...HTML5. I moved on to a new company and helped them build experiences for their clients to gather data. This was a big change for me and it no longer meant I could safely assume that the end user would be connected to the internet at all times and that everything would just work. I now had to assume the worst...the end user would be using my applications in some of the worst conditions for browsing the web. Little to no internet, very hot or very cold, rain, poor lighting, and I only had a short timeframe in which to retain the end user. This meant I had to be creative in my approaches to problems. Using offline caching methods whenever possible, smart polling for a connection so that we could gather the data as soon as possible and a lot of tweaking and testing with the UI/UX so the user would know what was what no matter where they were.

This all lead me to where I am today: Jetpac. Here at Jetpac, there's always an interesting engineering challenge on our plate. When we first started out, we were faced with trying to present users with only the great travel related photos from their friends on Facebook. This is much tougher than it sounds since the majority of photos posted to Facebook don't end up being all that great. Since we were a small team (only Chris and Pete at the time), this lead us to kick off a Kaggle competition to help build our foundation for a machine learning algorithm to give all the photos we see a quality score based on how good they are as a travel photo.

After that we tackled a lot of the same problems that many startups face, scaling. We see an incredibly large amount of data pass through our servers (this is where Pete gets a little giddy over just how much data we have) and we need a way to handle the traffic and the photo data without the user being slowed down or really being aware of how much photo processing we were doing in order to give them the experience they were expecting.

One of my personal favourite engineering challenges has dealt with the way that the user interacts with their data. We are an iOS application but not a native application. We run an objective-c wrapper that just displays a series of HTML5 pages that are all powered by <a href="http://backbonejs.org/" target="_blank">BackboneJS</a> and Ruby. This means that we have to make sure that the app is responsive enough so that the user can carry on swiping and scrolling and touching like they would naturally do on an iPad. Given the amount of information we're trying to present to the user and the way we know our users interact and want to interact has meant a lot more tweaking and testing.

Currently we're in the process of trying to explore all the various ways we can connect our users with their friends and others to help them make better travel decisions. Lets say for example I want to take a trip up to Tahoe for the weekend but have never been (a real situation a few of us here at Jetpac) so I have no idea how to answer the three things everyone needs to answer when travelling; Where do I eat, where do I stay and what do I do? An important factor we used was figuring out what our friends and their friends had experienced and using that as a starting point. Thinking about staying at this hotel? Well you might want to think again because I have a friend that stayed there and had a terrible experience. Hungry? Try this little hidden restaurant a 1/2 mile outside of town for some incredible BBQ. It's little tidbits of information like these that are really useful when travelling to an unknown place.

We here at Jetpac we have always wanted to help people get this information and that's what we're working hard to do in some interesting ways. We want a user to be able to quickly look at a venue and instantly know how popular that place actually is and whether or not their friends would recommend it...but here's the tricky part, we're trying to see if we can find a way to do all this without the user having to signin to all the various services they might look for that information. In the coming weeks and months we'll be posting our adventures into this challenge and what solutions we've hit upon.

Welcome to the Jetpac Engineering Team blog. Where have your friends been and you haven't?